posts: add Rustup 1.27.0 release announcement post (#1270)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2024-03-08-Rustup-1.27.0.md

> ---

Reviewer: Have we mentioned new maintainers of Rustup anywhere yet? It would be great if we can give credits to past and new members :)

Author: Done!

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Rustup 1.27.0"

> author: The Rustup Working Group
> ---
> 
> The rustup working group is happy to announce the release of rustup version 1.27.0.

Reviewer 2: Rustup was changed to a team a couple years ago.

```suggestion
author: The Rustup Team
---

The rustup team is happy to announce the release of rustup version 1.27.0.
```

Author: @ehuss Yes you're right! We're still called `wg-rustup` on Discord somehow but we should definitely change that 🤦‍♀️

```

Rustup will also automatically update itself at the end of a normal toolchain update:

```console
$ rustup update
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get rustup][install] from the appropriate page on our website.

[rust]: https://www.rust-lang.org
[install]: https://rustup.rs

## What's new in rustup 1.27.0

This long-awaited Rustup release has gathered all the new features and fixes since April 2023. These changes include improvements in Rustup's maintainability, user experience, compatibility and documentation quality.

Also, it's worth mentioning that Dirkjan Ochtman (djc) and rami3l (rami3l) have joined the team and are coordinating this new release.

At the same time, we have granted Daniel Silverstone (kinnison) and 二手掉包工程师 (hi-rustin) their well-deserved alumni status in this release cycle.
Kudos for your contributions over the years and your continuous guidance on maintaining the project!

The headlines for this release are:

1. Basic support for fish shell has been added.
   If you're using `fish`, PATH configs for your Rustup installation will be added automatically from now on.

   _Please note that this will only take effect on installation,

>    so you will need to rerun `rustup-init` if you already have installed Rustup on your machine._

Reviewer 3: `rustup-init` isn't available to me (zsh: command not found: rustup-init) with rustup installed. Should it be? Should we link this to rustup.rs or something else instead?

Author: @Mark-Simulacrum Thanks for your suggestion! I elaborated a bit on how exactly to reinstall Rustup in different scenarios.

2. Support for the `loongarch64-unknown-linux-gnu` host platform has been added.

>    This means you should be able to install Rustup simply by following [rustup.rs][install]'s instructions and no longer have to rely on [loongnix.cn] or self-compiled installations.

Reviewer 3: Is it worth noting that this is a tier 2 platform and linking to https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/rustc/platform-support.html#tier-2-with-host-tools?

It might be not be clear here that this is referencing specifically support in rustup (presumably also at tier-2-equivalent, i.e., we don't actually test this works, just cross-compile for it).

Author: @Mark-Simulacrum Thanks a lot for your suggestions! I have adjusted the wording accordingly.
